# Advanced logi guide

- This guide assumes the reader to know basic game mechanics. Good resources to learn them include the [Wiki](https://foxhole.wiki.gg/) and [Freerk's channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/FreerkHoltes).
- The information is actual for update 61 (August 2025) and mostly based on experiences of doing public logistics as a Warden on Able, but should be relevant for both sides. The "meta" might change with future updates.
- This is a work-in-progress. Suggestions are welcome.

## General advice

- Prioritize resolving the most pressing shortages. Produce and ship in minimal efficient batches. If you know some deliverable is not needed, keep the surplus up the supply chain because it is usually safer there and you could do something more useful instead of moving it. Focus on things that will become bottlenecks later. Clear resource fields and mines. Bring petrol. Keep refineries and factories working.
- Do something useful while you wait. Bring resources to the refinery between setting queues in factories. Do facility work between emptying stationary harvesters. Refresh mines you drive by while doing frontline deliveries.
- Use math, especially when planning facilities. Clock (or estimate) how much time common tasks take. There are many alternative ways to achieve the same thing: quantify the labor needed to choose.
- Depending on the shipping volume of inputs and outputs, items may be more efficiently produced closer to the source or the destination. Expensive crates favor backline, cheaper favor frontline. Many facilities want to be distributed.
- Be mindful of externalities. Don't spend too much time in a queued hex. Don't use fields and mines close to refineries for anything other than bmats and emats. Make vegan pcons and spend components on something else. Avoid making extra connections to busy train lines. Don't block seaports while loading. Make public facilities that are easy to use by others. In the end, we're all on the same team.
- If you are driving an empty vehicle on a return trip, look for opportunities to bring something along.
- Most things benefit from economies of scale. Setting up a facility that can efficiently produce battle tanks takes 20-50 hours, using it to make one battle tank takes ~1 hour. Share, trade and collaborate.
- Logistics is the most complicated role in Foxhole (as may be evident form the length of this guide). It has a steep learning curve and a lot of tacit knowledge. A 5-minute conversation with an expert can save you hundreds of hours later. Move up the supply chain while learning it: fight on the frontline and learn what each item does, do frontline logi, do midline logi (learn how to use freighters and trains), manufacture items, get into facilities, then do public infrastructure. Keep trying other roles: people who do one thing grow delusional.

## Priorities

- Your job as a logi player is to provide frontline with the *missing* equipment. Different situations require different solutions, and the troops fight more effectively when they have access to the specific tools they need to make progress. Good logi does not guarantee victory, but bad logi guarantees defeat.
- You can't provide all equipment at all times. You can't give everyone an SHT. There is a "pyramid" of gear that the frontline needs, and you should always provide essential basic equipment (shirts, bmats, medicines, rifles, ammo) before making increasingly more expensive gear as it tends to be far less cost-efficient: one frigate has the opportunity cost of 20 BTs, 200 silverhands, 600 ramparts, 10k carnyxes or 50k stickies delivered to a frontline depot.
- Foxhole is a team game, but helping their team the most efficient way is not everyone's goal, or at least not the *only* goal. Apart from people having natural preferences over what they want to do — for example, there is a category of people who like doing facilities and give away or subsidize battle tanks and large ships — the "economy" is heavily affected by players' vanity and clans' recruitment efforts. Tasks that let people earn commends or get publicity, like frontline logistics or supplying storage depots one flatbed at a time, are picked up more often. In a Darwinian sort of way, regiments that aren't good at attracting and retaining members die off and get replaced by others, which pushes them to be insular and provide expensive equipment just for their members. Those who do public logistics do it largely to boost their reputation: regiments get credit for providing a bluefin or doing some publicity stunt like dropping 1000 crates of some expensive item (often without providing its ammo) that would be advertised by a map post or talked about in the yellow chat. A tag-wearing regiment member bringing 150 shirts to a dying base is great advertisement, but if these shirts were public this situation wouldn't happen in the first place. Less visible and less glorious tasks, like bringing petrol to salvage fields, or supplying public bmats and other "boring" items, end up being neglected, and someone who does them could be a magnitude more impactful.
- Look for opportunities to fill a void. Do something that nobody else is already doing. Supply poverty hexes, build missing facilities, do QRF. At the same time, it's good to specialize on a role or a lane for a war to know the context better, be more efficient and avoid miscommunication with other people.
- As you get more experienced, prioritize the kind of tasks that fewer people can do. These might require skill, specific knowledge, restricted equipment or a large uninterrupted block of time. Build facilities, do back-to-back train runs, bring petrol to salvage fields. Other people can do frontline logi and drive freighters.
- Logi players can be much more productive than other roles, at least in terms of trading equipment. It can take as little as 5-6 minutes (amortized) to make and deliver one Silverhand, and its crew needs to kill one tank every two minutes, plus one per each tank they lose, to justify having three players crew tanks instead of making them. Gear is ridiculously easy to make if you know what you're doing, and achieving frontline objectives is much more important than preserving equipment: a bunker base typically has 150-200 crates in it, a relic base has twice as much, and having a frontline refinery or a well-located depot is equivalent to producing and delivering 1000-2000 crates per day in time savings (and it denies the enemy these benefits). Expending a hundred tanks to capture them is more than worth it, so don't feel guilty about wasting expensive items, especially if you're also making them. Play hard and work hard, and encourage others to do the same.
- Many groups prefer to be based in just one backline hex that has an MPF, a seaport and a good roll of resource fields reasonably close to a refinery, and they often choose it in the brief ~30 minutes between when the map layout is revealed and the start of the war, without really communicating with others. Logi towns may become congested, with a lot of competition for resources, long factory and MPF queues, and the seaport being frequently blocked. You want to take this into account and prioritize logi towns without an MPF for the bulk of manufacturing. For a standard North-vs-South war, this is Great Warden Dam and Allsight for Wardens, and Cannonsmoke and Teichotima for Colonials. It is even better to pick multiple hexes to produce different equipment where it's most efficient (cheaper items closer to the frontline), check multiple fields closest to a refinery and spawn when they become full, and use multiple refineries so they don't become a bottleneck.

## Frontline logistics

- Most logistics is frontline logistics. It can take as low as 3-4 minutes to make and deliver 15 crates of basic supplies to a depot, but the round-trip from a frontline depot to the frontline base is typically somewhere between 5 and 10 minutes.
- Your job is to provide the missing items so that the people can fight more effectively while not wasting them by oversupplying.
- Use a [stockpile scanner](https://s6ss.pages.dev/) to figure out which items are missing, and also which items are being used and at what rate. Good time to take and ctrl+v a screenshot is when crossing a hex border or when arriving at a depot (while shift-click pulling public shirts or bmats).
- You typically want to bring just one crate of items that are missing or critically low, unless you know their burn rate and that they might run out by the time you visit the base again. Notable exceptions are shirts and bmats, which are usually somewhere between a third and a half of all crates you bring. If there is no risk of logi being cut off, you can get away with having as low as 80-100 crates in the base and still continuously provide every item without any shortages, but bases are usually very oversupplied, with several times more crates being exposed.
- If you are planning to log off, switch to another role, or if there is a risk of logi being cut, you want to leave some surplus so that supplies can last. Stockpile scanner can show recommended amounts of each item to bring, relative to a desired number of shirts.
- Many items come in pairs (guns and ammo, RPG launchers and shells, trauma kits and plasma, gas masks and filters, havoc charges and detonators, etc.), and you especially want to keep the right ratio to avoid having deadlocked items that can't be used. For most guns, you want 3 clips per gun and err on the side of providing more ammo because the guns can be looted and brought to the base, with extra ammo being slowly consumed. Some items are faction-specific, notably lunaires and cutlers, but the other faction is able to produce their ammo, which you only want to bring if you know there are looted launchers in the base.
- Ship more long rifles, sniper rifles and machine guns during the day and more SMGs, shotguns and flares during the night.
- It is important to account for the equipment of the other faction, especially for newly captured bases, but keep in mind that people strongly prefer the equipment of their faction. If there are 50 loughcasters and 50 argentis, wardens will be picking loughcasters and colonials will picking argenties almost exclusively. Exceptions are racas and lunaires.
- The frontline always goes back and forth, and bases die very frequently. If a base is dehusked, all equipment is destroyed, and if it is captured, the other faction gets 25% of it (excluding shirts and msupps). Chose what and how much to bring according to the risk of losing it. Usually there is one or more bunker bases where most people spawn from and a safer base located further back (typically a relic/town base). Your main "customer" when supplying a forwad BB is infantry who dies frequently and grabs cheap fast-moving equipment, and the relic base is where you should bring more specialized and expensive gear: tank shells, sniper rifles, listening kits, as well as artillery shalls (usually palleted) and fuel (usuallly in liquid containers). Safe houses are special and even better than town bases in this respect because they rarely die: they can not be permanently destroyed (except by nuking them), and their inventory is only viped if the enemy holds the town base for around 2 days (or 4 days if the town base has a storage depot which they would prioritize unlocking).
- When a new base is built or captured, bring a "starter kit" to it, consisting of 4-5 crates of shirts, 200-300 bmats, meds, stickies, shovels, grenades and some guns and ammo (depending on time of day). Inform people in the region chat that the base has shirts so that they set spawn there. Make sure people have actually started to spawn there before bringing more equipment.
- Pay attention to map posts and intel/logi chat. Always have a radio with you: you need it to check for partisans and assess whether the base you're supplying will survive. Build watch towers: they're 60 bmats each but tend not to live long. It is best to either park a loaded truck next to a border and grab bmats and go build them on foot, or build them on your return trip. You want to have a tower on both sides of the border right after the no build zone and a few meters off road (they will last ~5 hours), and another tower right outside rapid decay zone (those will last two days). This way they will cover the entire road. A more permanent solution is observation bunkers, but they are a responsibility of local base builders.
- You can bring one more crate in your character inventory. It is fastest to pull the crate in the truck, exit it, put it in your inventory and hop back, and spend another second at the destination to submit it. Do not do it if the destination is under heavy artillery fire, it is a very short route, or you need space for other equipment.
- Prioritize delivering from bluefins (they are not permanently deployed and go away to refill) and vulnerable depots (that are being attacked or nuked).
- If there is a refinery nearby, ship bmats directly from it over a depot. You can stop by to bring some salvage from nearby mines and fields to it. It is especially convenient to grab some salvage from a mine on your return trip.
- Some depots have a factory next to it which you can conveniently use to augment your runs. Pull bmats from the depot, uncrate them, and queue something that is missing from the depot or the base you're supplying. Prioritize items that cost fewer than 100 bmats (meds, ammo, tools) for transportation efficiency.
- Sometimes weird things somehow end up on the frontline, and you should evacuate them on your return trip. This includes wreckages, emats, hemats, rmats. Overdelivered expensive gear such as sniper rifles and banes is also worth pulling and evacuating.
- Frontline looting is worth it for sniper and AT rifles, RPG launchers, other rmat items, stacks of bmats, items that are 5 per crate and thus hard to deliver (radios, wrenches, binoculars) and *maybe* tank/RPG shells — these take 10-30 seconds to make and deliver to a frontline base. Everything else is too cheap to bother with, and it might even be counterproductive for ammo, grenades and bandages as they will likely be picked up and used by infantry. It is useful to have a truck for installing tripod weapons and supplying its ammo and grabbing expensive items on the return trip.
- If you want to do frontline logistics exclusively, choose a hex with at least 300 casualties per hour or you will oversupply (you can check it on Foxhole Stats). One spawn consumes around 0.5 crates of equipment on average, and your round trip is usually around 5-6 minutes bringing 15-16 crates, so you can comfortably cover 300 casualties per hour (30-40 active players).

## Midline logistics

- Frontline bases need to have some extra supplies — especially critical ones likes shirts and bmats — to survive being cut off. This is less of a concern for frontline depots: you want to stockpile as little as possible while still providing everyting and resupplying them with minimal efficient batches (freighters or trains). You especially do not want to have more than 2-3 days' worth of gear because the depot might get suddenly captured or targeted with a nuke, or your faction might capture a new more convenient depot.
- Always supply the depot/seaport that is closest to the frontline. While having a fallback option is useful for defending, minimizing frontline logi driving time is far more important. If it doesn't have a convenient water or railway access, drop off containers at the closest point and relay them with flatbeds. For unloading freighters, mobile cranes be placed on the closest shore. Each trip with a flatbed saves four trips with a truck down the line. You can often find people who can help with this in the regional chat.
- Use the closest refinery for supplying bmats. Unless there are no frontline refineries in your lane, leave bmats in the backline to be turned into item crates. 
- Except for oil and refinery hexes, the frontline needs imports of fuel for logistical and combat vehicles as well as mines. After late-game tanks are teched, a typical frontline can consume about one trainload of petrol per day.
- When supplying a frontline depot, you can bring back msupps in the same shipping containers — or assembly materials, concrete, or anything else that is palleted.
- If you are crossing more than one lane for a delivery, you're doing something wrong. Switch either the backline or frontline hex.
- The decision to use a private stockpile or submit to public involves trade-offs, and it's not just about the 1-2 minutes you save by not pulling from public. On one end of the spectrum you have noobs bringing 15 public crates of sniper rifles to a T1 bunker base that immediately gets dehusked. On the other end you have a monolingual single-timezone regiment hoarding supplies and getting all their progress wiped as bases die without shirts after the clanmen log off to complain about "lowpop trash pve" the next morning. While some items need to be protected from being overdelivered, you'll pay an even bigger price if you start losing bases, which is why it is critical to ensure availability of basic supplies, and even the largest coalitions can't do it on their own. Use public and private stockpiles depending on your group's frontline logi availability. Make critical items like shirts, bmats and stickies public. Making a larger set of items available to public reduces oversupplying of frontline bases, as people looking for a specific missing item in a depot would otherwise grab something that isn't really needed. Look at the public stockpile from time to time and transfer the missing items; it is useful to do it via a container, so that the hex gets a list of items being transfered, and also you and your group can earn some commends and recognition. Another factor in favor of public stockpiles is infantry kit factories, which are easier to run when producing public crates.
- It is usually not worth evacuating stockpiles — you will be laughed at. However, it makes sense to ship missing items (usually shirts and bmats) and evacuate excesses (especially oversupplied rmat items in private stockpiles) on your return trip.
- You may not always have a full trainload that needs to be moved from point A to point B. It is very helpful to have large volumes (pool cargo with others) and use a midline depot as a logistical hub for shunting (notably Brodytown and Sitaria).

## Character inventory

- Always have a wrench and a radio on you.
- Gas mask and filters are useful when driving freighters. You typically have no chance against the pirates. If you have enough gas filters, you can just refuse to exit the freighter, and they will be forced to destroy it. But if you're not wearing a mask, they can gas you and steal the supplies, which is twice as bad.
- You want to have a short-range weapon, either primary or secondary. An SMG is good, a pillory shotgun is perfect. Some bmats for repairs, a bandage, binoculars and a tanker/armor uniform might also be useful. A gas grenade may be very rarely useful for gassing out partisans who get in vehicles (and friendly AFK players blocking railways). Do not save on personal equipment: what you are driving is much more valuable.

## General transportaiton

- Frontline logistics is done with trucks, barges and (in extreme cases) freighters and trains. Midline logistics is done with flatbed trucks, freighters and trains, and sometimes bluefins. Facility work is done with small trains.
- Pull times depend on the item pulled, where it is pulled from, and what it is pulled with. Generally more expensive crates and items take longer to pull. It is twice as fast to pull from a base with a truck than with your character. It is twice as fast to pull from public stockpiles and refineries with trucks and containers than with small trains or your character. Pulling a full container (60 crates) from public usually takes 7-8 minutes. It is 9 times faster to pull from facilites with a small train — this includes stationary harvesters but not mines: trucks, resource containers and small trains take the same time (?). Pulling from a bluefin is three times faster than pulling from public stockpiles in depots.
- It takes one second (plus your network latency to the server) to pull anything from a private stockpile, incentivising you to pull more crates at a time. The fastest way to pull from private stockpiles is to use "retrive custom" option and pull 15 crates at a time (you spend about 10 seconds instead of a minute). It also results in a 10-15% boost when filling containers from public stockpiles and very significant time savings when pulling from transfer stations and other facilities.
- When you pull for a long time (regardless of method), an *assembly penalty* is gradually added. After about a minute, pulling becomes two times slower, and it takes ~7 minutes to return back to normal. Check [Wiki](https://foxhole.wiki.gg/wiki/Assembly_Mechanic) for details.
- Resource containers have very bad pull speed regardless of what you pull with. You want to submit their contents to a resource transfer station.
- Crates can be submitted directly to a shipping container. Resources such as bmats, emats, hemats, rmats and msupps can be crated there, in addition to storage depots. Defying laws of physics, crating bmats and msupps decreases their weight and allows trucks to move faster.
- When loading a shipping container with public crates, you can put it aside and pull crates with a dunne and submit to the container to not block the pad.
- Every item is more efficiently transported in crates, except for resources and, notably, shirts, which stack up to 100 per inventory slot but are only 10 when crated. It takes a long time to pull them and it's generally not worth it, unless you're AFK using an auto-clicker. Hospitals produce uncrated shirts that can be easily moved in stacks of 100.
- Emats and hemats (and gravel) are more efficiently transported in resource containers (and also more easily submitted to facilities). To fill a resource container (5k), you need 125 emat crates (40 per crate) or 167 hemat crates (30 per crate). Fill them either with a truck or straight from a refinery.
- MPF crates have 3 vehicles or structures in them (except for Falchions, which have 5). You mostly want to transport vehicles and structures in MPF crates (and upgrade them at the destination if needed). If the destination has a garage or a construction yard, it's better to just hammer trucks, emplaced weapons and other bmat-costing things instead of importing MPF crates. It is also better to bring rmats to hammer cheap (<40) rmat vehicles like push guns, jeeps, armored cars and light artilleriy instead of shipping MPF crates: the MPF discount saves you <30 rmats per crate, which takes 1-2 minutes to farm and hammer in at a garage, but it would typically take ~5 minutes to ship the MPF crate from the backline.
- Do not put MPF crates on top of shipping containers and don't triple-stack resource containers: if the packaging expires, you would have to climb on top to package it again (you can do it by placing a storage box blueprint).
- You can interact with seaports from the sides. Five trucks (3 in the center, 2 on the sides) can interact with the seaport without blocking the pads.
- Liquids are best transported in liquid containers. Don't crate them.
- Large items such as artillery shells can be transported on pallets, in shipping containers, or in the resource form and produced closer to the frontline, and you want to use the densest form available. One resource container of hemats is 20.8 pallets of 120mm or 8.3 shipping containers of 120mm. Similarly, a container of bmats can become 2.5 containers of bayonets and .44 at a frontline factory, and a resource container of emats can become 7.6 shipping containers of shrapnel at a Small Arms Workshop (plus they would also be made at sub-MPF prices and won't need bmats). This math is different for each item: AT mines are 10 per crate and 60 per pallet (favoring transportation by trucks) while 120mm/150mm shells are 5 per crate and 120 per pallet (favoring pallets).
- Ammo rooms and large ships want crated artillery shells: they are more easily submitted this way.
- Always MPF containers, and use construction equipment in non-MPF backline hexes that have a construction yard. One trainload of coal turned into gravel and fed into CE saves ~4 hours of bonking with a hammer.
- Trains are slightly more efficient than freighters but require larger batches and more preparation. A good rule of thumb for calculating the labor cost of deliveries is 3 minutes plus 2 minutes per hex per shippable (?).

## Storage

- You can create up to 3 private stockpiles and have access to up to 5, but you can't "forget" a stockpile unless it expires. Stockpiles can be made "visible", allowing others to view their contents and submit crates to them, but not pull.
- Public stockpiles (including blueifns) can have up to 1000 of each crate. Private stockpiles can have up to 100 of each item crate (except resources, which have a limit of 300: bmats, rmats, emats, hemats, msupps (?)) and up to 10 of each vehicle/structure and their MPF crates.
- Private stockpiles expire and all their contents become public after 50 hours if nobody is using or refreshing them. The timer keeps going while the depot is destroyed: if a town base is tapped and quickly rebuilt, it might unlock industry with a few hours left on the timer, but more often all its private stockpiles expire by that time. Some crates may be wasted to overflow, which is especially common for bmats hoarded by clans.
- Similar to bases, when a depot is rebuilt by the enemy, they get 25% of the original crates, excluding shirts and msupps.
- Once something is submitted to public, it will always remain public. This includes upgraded public vehicles.
- Battle tanks, vetted vehicles, vehicles with damaged armor and trains can not be stored in stockpiles. They can be hooked on a squadlocked stationary crane and connected to a power switch (or just manually disconnected) so that only members of the squad can turn the power on and drop the vehicle. A truck is often used the same way to store loose rare metals, rmats and other valuables. Another option for securing vehicles is to use a squadlocked power pole or a pipe that blocks the exit. Make sure they are secure from partisans: a crane can be killed with just 3 RPG shells, and parked vehicles can be killed with the colonial 20mm sniper rifle from up to 57 meters away.
- Large ships and SHTs can be reserved, preventing other people from driving them.
- Vehicles despawn after a certain period of time (4-7 days) if nobody is using them. This includes large ships and trains. Don't worry about cleaning a graveyard of freighters as they will eventually despawn.

## Trucks

- Most of the time you should just use a normal truck. Warden Dunnes and Colonial R-1s have the same stats. It is made in a garage for 100 bmats or MPFed. Modified variants can be made in a motor pool. 
- Always use petrol. It gives a 10% boost to vehicles compared to diesel. The downside is that it is harder to transpoart — a liquid container of petrol holds half as much as a liquid container of diesel (100 cans for each, but one can of petrol is half the volume) — but it is more than worth it: a full liquid container of diesel lasts for about 50 hours of driving a truck, so the 10% boost effectively saves 5 hours of driving at the cost of spending at most 5-10 minutes to bring one more liquid container of petrol. There is no good use for diesel except as a power source and for fueling mobile harvesters in oilless hexes.
- Speed of a truck depends on the weight of its cargo, including towables. There is no penalty for empty trucks, a constant penalty for 1-99% encumbrance (99% is reached with 15 crates for a normal truck), and then it increases with more weight.
- Going over mud left from the rain increases the truck's weight and causes it to move slower. The mud slowly disappears while driving on puddle-free roads. A fire truck or a bucket filled with water from a puddle, a well or shore water can be used to wash a vehicle. Puddles themselves can be removed with buckets, but it's rarely worth it. A muddy vehicle can not be submitted to a stockpile.
- Heavy trucks (Warden Cnutes and Colonial Taurines) are immune to normal gunfire and can take one or two stickies/RPGs before getting disabled. Many partisans aren't aware of it and will still try to shoot you. They have two shifts (switched with F key): the low shift has good acceleration and the high shift has good top speed. They are larger, slower on road (especially Taurines), harder to drive, and can't climb steep slopes and go to some places a normal truck can. Heavy trucks technically have armor, and if it is damaged it can not be stored in a stockpile until repaired in a garage. They are good for pulling push guns, causing almost no slowdown, and are less affected by mud. They cost 40 pcons in a field station, which is cheap but not negligible.
- Wardens can make a truck that is better off-road (Landrunner) and a truck that is somewhat armored (Leatherback) at the cost of one inventory slot. Colonials can also make a truck that has boost capaility (Sisyphus), which is pretty hard to turn at top speed and consumes a lot of fuel.
- You can vet trucks increasing their total HP. Unlike vetting tanks, it only costs cmats.
- The people you drive over in the middle of the night deserve it, but you to spare their lives by almost instantly stopping with Z key.
- Drive far on the right to avoid collisions. There is no speed penalty as long as half of your truck stays on the visible side of the road.
- Trucks can move onto a barge. The barge itself can have additional 15 crates. This is useful on certain routes: e.g., when supplying Prairie Bazaar from Ulster Falls and vice versa. Barges can only land on beaches, docks and player-built navy piers that cost 50 beams. Partisans are rarely an issue for water logi as they do not expect it.
- Loaded trucks can be packed and put inside freighters or even trains. With the 10 crates in the freighter plus 1 in the character inventory, you can move 15x5+10+1=86 crates per trip.
- Jeeps aren't terrible and are actually even better than trucks for moving crates off-road. This is useful for sneaking past partisans cutting the logi road.
- Flatbed trucks also have a decent off-road speed, which is useful when supplying depot towns that are being cut off.
- Resource and fuel trucks are usually not the best option: use small trains or flatbeds if you can.
- Different kinds of roads give different speed boosts, with asphalt being 5% faster than mud roads. Provisional roads can be constructred with gravel, allowing vehicles to drive at 45% of their on-road speed, which is still 2x faster than driving off-road for normal trucks. Trucks also move on foundations as fast as on roads (?).
- You can squadlock trucks but you really shouldn't. It doesn't "protect" it in any meaningful way and just annoys people who would wrench it and drive it away, only realizing it's squadlocked at the destination. A normal lock lasts 5 minutes (preventing others from wrenching a friendly vehicle) and a squadlock lasts 30 minutes (?). Don't leave any logi vehicles locked or squadlocked when you're done using them.

## Freighters

- Freighters and shipping containers are cheap, and it isn't efficient to return them for long journeys (more than 1-2 hexes), unless the origin doesn't have an easy way to make shipping containers.
- Freighters are very slow to rotate. Rotation is faster when at full speed, when braking with space, and when you ram into a static object and use it to turn — which is especially useful for rotating 90 or 180 degrees at the seaport by using its corners as levers.
- To wait less at bridges, you can brake at the same time when you hit the E button, slow down to ~4kn, start accelerating again, and pass through the bridge at ~7kn instead of zero when ramming at the bridge. This also applies to other modes of transport when waiting for someone else to move: maintain a distance and start accelerating when they start to move.
- Always close road bridges when you pass them, and typically also close railway bridges, except in the first 8-9 days of the war (as there are no trains) and in some locations clearly without any train traffic.
- Do not MPF freighters. It is not worth it as it adds too much time to the vehicle queue (that is used for rmat vehicles like tanks). A freighter is just 500 bmats and 100 bonks with a hammer.

## Big trains

- Trains have up to 15 cars, including the locomotive. Typical cargo train setups have 12-13 flatbed cars.
- Trains both carry more shippables and move faster than freighters (8 vs 6.2 m/s) but take a long time to accelerate and require setting the track switches to the right poistions.
- Usually two players are required: one drives in front of the train setting the switches and checking for partisans and the other drives the train itself (essentially just pressing W and occasionally checking the map). Colonial Argonaut is the best vehicle for driving in front of a train for its off-road speed, but Wardens don't have access to it and mostly have to use drummonds and motorcycles. Drummonds and argonauts provide intel in 60m range (similar to a radio backpack) while a motorcycle does not.
- Due to their large size and shipment capacity, trains are difficult to load and unload. To avoid blocking seaports, 12-13 containers are typically "preloaded", set aside and then quickly put on flatbed cars when a train comes. Usually two or more players load and unload the train: one driving the train and others operate cranes. Since the driver can't see the entire train, they should communicate in voice chat, or ideally be in a Discord call with the crane operator sharing their screen. Storage depots are more convenient than seaports and often allow efficient solo loading and unloading, and facilities often have circle-shaped railway loops that allow loading a train with one or two stationary cranes without moving it at all.
- You want to do back-to-back same-route runs or train convoys for more efficiency. After you do a "forward" run, you can drive the train solo on your return trip and on repeated runs while the switches are "hot" and you don't need to stop to set them. It also takes a few minutes to take a train from and to a railyard, which gets less taxing for back-to-back runs.
- When doing "export" runs between depots or seaports, you may or may not want to return empty shipping containers. The decision depends on whether you will be blocking each depot, on how busy they are, whether you are unloading the train solo, where you will park the train after, and how difficult it is to make containers at the origin.
- A train will destroy parked truck and cranes on its way, but won't destroy tanks and trains.
- You want to announce a train in region chat when crossing the border, specifying the route you're taking in the hex. This lets people move vehicles out of railway tracks, but more importantly lets you coordinate with other trains and avoid collision.
- You can stop the train instantly by pressing the Z key. This also crates gaps between cars, allowing people to pass through.
- Trains use coal for fuel. The locomotive has 300 coal, which in practice lasts for about two hexes if you don't need to stop to set switches. Extra can be stored in a container car (1500 coal) or in an infantry car, which has 14 slots that can hold anything. The container car is smaller and additionally allows a second player in the locomotive to boost its speed by 20% by shoveling coal while consuming a very uneconomical amount of coal, which only makes sense for combat situations. The infantry car can hold some actual cargo, extra passengers, and mount tripod weapons on top, giving a false sense of security. For busy cargo trains it is recommended to just store extra coal in flatbed cars, which have one inventory slot that can be filled with 100 coal. The jeep driving in front of the train can also carry some coal. Public coal stashes are also often maintained at important railway junctions.
- A caboose is needed to repair tracks a train drives by, which is essential because there is no way to msupp the railway tracks built close to a border. A train with a caboose should pass over a track every 80 hours to avoid decay. It needs to be filled with either msupps (repairs 10%) or cmats (repairs a track fully), and it is more economical to use cmats. You can ride in the caboose and crouch under it, allowing you to cross through a tightly parked train, and it makes sense to put it in the middle of the train to avoid having to run around.
- Short trains with 6 flatbed cars can be useful for moving components and sulfur from a field (you usually collect ~6 resource containers from one clear), for moving crates from an MPF to the seaport (try not to block the seaport while doing it) and staging small-scale combat ops (moving battle tanks or an SPG with 150mm pallets). Since you have free spots, you can add a rockhold or a second locomotive for convenience. A common configuration is 2 locomotives and 6 flatbed cars with a caboose in the middle.
- Sometimes switches become "inverted" or "cursed", pointing to one direction but redirecting to the other. Install a sign if you spot one.
- You can interact with buildings from the locomotive and access the inventory of the next 3 cars. This is useful for putting coal in the locomotive or flatbed cars. When using infantry cars, it lets you deliver msupps directly to tunnels and bases and theoretically even do frontline logi with large trains.
- You want to have the locomotive locked and squadlocked. Keep in mind that a squadlock lasts 30 minutes, which shorter than most runs, and when it expires the locomotive either needs to be wrenched or unlocked by the person who locked it originally. Wrench the locomotive far from the connection to the other car or you'll accidentally decouple it.
- When driving trains, the biggest dangers are partisans killing the locomotive, killing the locomotive driver (the locomotive is bulletproof but doesn't protect from the back), and partisans getting in a locomotive and driving it into AT (or any other AI — it's not fully bulletproof and will eventually die even to a rifle pillbox). Enemy vehicles can be spotted on intel, and the real danger is partisans in scout uniforms with 20mm rifles who can kill the locomotive with it. This is much less of a concern for Colonials as Warden AT rifles have much lower DPS than Colonial "Dawn" rifles. If partisans destroy part of a train during a run, ask for help to recover it as soon as possible. Expect to encounter partisans in about 5% of your trips to a frontline depot, and much less often when driving between backline hexes.
- Trains are moderately expensive. The locomotive costs around two pallets of pcons and half a pallet of a1s, and the rest of the train costs about as much as a locomotive.
- Trains are also difficult to store securely. You do not need to worry about the tail (it is not valuable enough for partisans to mess with it, unless you're on the frontline), but you do need to worry about the locomotive. You want to at least install a gate blocking the railway so that a partisan can't drive it into AT, and ideally store the locomotive inside a secure area — on a crane or with pipes or power poles blocking the way if you also want to protect against it being stolen by griefers.
- Due to these difficulties, you rarely want your own train, unless you have a very specific and frequent route between facilities. You can often find people you can borrow a train from, or at least negotiate some deal when you share some burden of maintaining a railyard. On the Warden side, the Warden Trading Guild operates a trainsharing program across the entire map. On the Colonial side, HvL is known for letting you borrow their trains if you ask nicely.

## Railways

- Design railways for single-locomotive trains as they are more common, ~8% more efficient and 1.5x cheaper. Make proper loops for trains to turn around and unload. For double-ended trains, strips or "spirals" can be built instead.
- One railway segment is up to 25m long and costs 5 pcons to build. One pallet of pcons will last for about a quarter of a hex.
- Railway loops for unloading/parking trains need to be 150m or 6 segments long. You can get away with 5 segments if you park the train tightly, but 6 segments is strongly recommended as otherwise people would forget to check if they are blocking the main railway.
- When laying tracks, you want to drive along a potential path on a jeep and place blueprints first. Having binoculars and a radio is useful. Some buildings might need to be demolished — try to first contact their builder (or responsible regiment). To finish the blueprints, you want to drop off pcon pallets at relic bases and ideally use a Taurine/Cnute with a trailer to finish them (they can transport 15+32=47 pcons at a time). The fastest way is to alt-click drop 4 or 8 pcons next to a blueprint and press V a few times to quickly submit them.
- Being able to build a track doesn't guarantee that a train will be able to pass it. Sometimes a train can get stuck on a tree, a rock or a building (destructible or indestructible), or get stuck when going backwards or at low speed. If the entire blueprint, including the edges, doesn't intersect with anything, it should be fine, but otherwise you want to test the track with a locomotive before doing a real run. You can demolish railway tracks within 6 hours of building, after that you'll need 5 flags and havocs.
- You can control railway elevation with mouse wheel. This is useful for constructing steep railways and for making sure that the railway built across the road is low enough to not slow down vehicles (try driving on top of blueprints to check for "speed bumps").
- Do not make any connection more complicated than a triangle. Make triangles as small as possible so that a driver can exit a train/vehicle and quickly set both switches they need. Prefer making intersections close to roads so that jeep drivers can spend less time setting switches, and also to make it less of a partisan hazard.
- Think about cases when two trains need to pass each other. It makes sense to add secondary routes (or two parallel 150m tracks) to allow two trains to pass each other.
- Try to build your railway loops in a way that doesn't interfere with defenses and doesn't block access to a depot/seaport. Sometimes placing a sky-crane is required for that.
- There is benefit to building "express lanes" to common destinations, as well as busy "private" railways between facilities, and disallow people from adding switches to them. Railways built in RDZ can not have connections (this is done so that when a train spawns it is always clear which path it should spawn on — RDZ is 150m from the border, slightly more than the max size of a train). You also can't make connections to railways that are too steep or elevated (showing a foundation below them).
- If you are building a base/facility and want a railway to pass through it, leave space for it and ideally place the most difficult bits yourself.
- You want to build RTSes or leave coal containers at important intersections. They are very fast to set up and can be extremely helpful for passing trains and local facilities.
- Most seaports and depots allow building a reasonable railway loop (sometimes involving a sky-crane) where just one crane operator and one driver are needed to load a train. Trains also don't block most storage depots, allowing solo-driving and solo-loading at leisurely pace without inconveniencing anyone. Notable exceptions include Abandoned Ward, Ulster Falls, Kirknell, Weathering Halls and Silk Farms.
- There is a lot of tacit knowledge in building railways, and some railway loops are especially hard to build optimally. If there is a complicated segment, consult with people who have played in the hex before or get someone experienced to build it.

## Small trains

- The general track-laying tips apply to small railways too, except that small trains are much cheaper, and you can afford to have more of them.
- A small train can have 5 cars, including locomotives (Mineseeker), resource cars (Railtruck, holds 2500 or loose resources), item cars (Stowheel, has 15 inventory slots), liquid cars (Tinderbox, can hold 50 cans) and flatbed cars (Linerunner, can hold 50 or 100 of large items).
- You want to build separate trains on separate lines for different purposes so that you don't have to set switches while driving.
- When building a facility, place the tracks last because they can only be demolished within 6 hours, while you can demolish any other facility building within 28 days of placing it (?). You want to have at least the locomotive printed and base facilities built, and then place the tracks to test if the train is getting stuck anywhere and can reach everything you need. Also test roads for speed bumps, especially if you're building tracks in a logi town.
- Trains go faster forward than backward, but adding a second locomotive (reducing the cargo) or adding loops at both ends (requiring you to set switches) is usually not worth it, although having a full switchless loop might be a good idea if you have the space for it.
- Avoid building gates over tracks because you have to leave the train to open it when going backwards. If you're building a public salvage field next to a refinery, you will only annoy people who would keep the gate open with parked vehicles anyway, defeating its purpose. Trains are narrow, so you can leave a small ungated entrance in the defenses that any serious vehicle can't go through anyway, and partisans on foot won't be able to get in as long as it is covered by a machine gun garrison.
- Small trains are often used to bring resources from fields and mines to a refinery. You want these trains oriented towards the refinery because people often park on tracks and block them. Small trains are slow (4 m/s) and less efficient than flatbeds over long distances (9.78 m/s on road transporting 5k resources instead of 10k), but you do not have to mess with cranes and only need to hold one button while driving them (which you can do with a macro).
- Small trains with flatbed cars are often used for unloading artillery shells, concrete and other large items and submitting them either to an MTS or directly to a pallet. You can submit to a pallet if it is very close to the locomotive, or you can place a pallet next to a flatbed car, hop on it with Q, and click on the pallet, but you'll have to do it twice to fill it (a pallet holds 120 and the flatbed car holds 100). It is sometimes useful to export large items from a facility to an MTS closer to the frontline with a small train with 4 flatbed cars.
- Small trains with 4 stowheels are often used in logi towns for manufacturing, and for delivering msupps to off-road tunnels. In certain niche cases they can be used for off-road frontline logistics and moving stuff over long distances if containers are not an option — notably, for bringing bmats from Port of Rime to a factory in Breaker Town. 
- Before building a new railway line, think about how often it will be used. You do not need a small train to occasionally move cmats or operate a tripod factory: a normal truck will do.

## Cranes

- There are mobile cranes, facility cranes and skycranes. There are also cranes on bluefins and bowheads, and built-in cranes in refineries, depots, seaports and construction yard. The vary in range and speed.
- Cranes can interact not only with the building that you put a container on but with any building within a certain range: place any shippale (including pallets, packed trucks or stowheels) on any pad (or in front of mines), press shirt+E and select a building you want to interact with. This is especially useful for submitting resources directly to a facility and retreiving orders (private ones; pulling from a public facility stockpile this way is considerably slower than with a small train).
- You usually want to minimize the angle between a pad and a container. When using a flatbed, you usually need to turn around and drive away after loading/unloading a container. You can instead turn around first and park backwards, slightly reducing the angle between the container and the pad.
- For storage depots and refineries, an RTS can be added as an extra pad. For trains submitting resources to a refinery, it might have a lower angle between the pad and a flatbed car, reducing the time it takes to unload a container. It can also can double as a storage for coal and loose resources like emats.
- Mobile cranes (and other vehicles) can be put in place by damaging or putting poles around them, but the author finds it disgusting. It is better to install signs asking people not to move them and have lots of spare cranes and trucks around.
- Facility cranes need to be powered, consuming 0.5 MW whether actively used or not. Unless you have cheap/unlimited power, you want to install a power switch — and a sign explaining how to use it and reminding people to turn it off when not used, because not everybody knows how to. There is a 11m distance limit between facility cranes.
- Cranes have a minimum range. This is especially important to remember when placing skycranes. You want them to reach all of the railway, without blind spots. You can see these ranges in Foxhole Planner. 
- Sometimes you drop a container and it collides with something and ends up slightly off. It is very annoying, especially when using stationary cranes. Don't place containers at the maximum range, and have a mobile crane somewhere nearby.
- You can "ghost-crane" a mobile crane by exiting it while holding the right mouse button, and would keep rotating. This glitch has something to do with frame rendering, and only consistently works on lower FPS.

## Resources

(in progress)

- Salvage mines yield between 27 and 45 salvage every 8 seconds depending on the current global population (maximum usually at around 7pm UTC, minimum at 7am UTC). This works out to between 15 and 25 minutes to fill them from 0 to 5000. Sulfur and component mines work the same way except that their "tick" is 32 seconds and they correspondingly fill 4 times slower.
- All mines are three times more efficient when using petrol, both in terms of speed and output per liter. There is no reason to use diesel after the first couple of hours of the war. Each "tick" consumes one liter, and one liquid container of petrol lasts for ~11h for salvage mines and ~44h for component and sulfur mines if they are emptied timely. Internal tanks hold 20 canisters of petrol, five times less than a full liquid container. Petrol can not be automatically piped, but an LTS is often built nearby with a liquid container or a small train for fast refueling (and also providing fuel for passing vehicles).
- When manually harvesting salvage fields, you collect approximately 500 salvage per minute when using a normal hammer, 720 when using a sledge hammer, and 1120 when using a mobile harvester. You can't collect sulfur and components with a hammer, and you collect 190 and 750 per minute with sledges and mobile harvesters respectively. More than two players using mobile harvesters (on any field) will be bottlenecked by the rate of node spawning. These are "practical" rates that include the time it takes to submit resources to a facility or a container.
- Salvage and coal fields "respawn" in random intervals that depend on global population: 30-45 minutes at highest and 45-67 at lowest, and 4x longer for sulfur and components.
- Salvage and coal fields have 250 nodes, and sulfur and component fields have 154 nodes. Not accounting for shiny nodes, a full salvage field is 50k, coal field is 67.5k, and sulfur and component fields are both 30k. Manually harvesting a salvage field takes ~50 minutes with a single mobile harvester and ~20 minutes with three stationary harvesters at 5/5 queues, and harvesting a component/sulfur field takes ~45 minutes.
- A field starts its respawn timer when all its reserve nodes are consumed (when you hover on the map or press E while standing next to the center it should display zero). Up to 25 nodes may remain spawned. When a field respawns, 250 nodes are added, for up to 275, including the previous nodes that were left unharvested. The previously spawned nodes may have a chance of dropping the new special resource, but not the old one. If you are using stationary harvesters, you do not really "miss out on" any resources by not manually harvesting the last 25 nodes, except for the possible special resources and the extra yield of shiny nodes.
- When any node (full or split) spawns, it becomes shiny with probability of around 5% and yields 2-3 times more than a normal one. Everything can be shiny, including wreckages, rares and tmats. Stationary Harvesters do not collect the shiny nodes, missing on ~7.5% of extra resources.
- It is unclear how special resources (rare metals and tech materials) precisely work, and the drops are decided server-side and can be changed between and even during wars, but the model that best fits observations is this. Any salvage field has a 50% (?) chance of dropping a special resource, independent of its history, and the resource is selected uniformly from those available at the current tech level. The number of special resources you get from a field is random with high variance: you can expect an average of 75, with 90% chance of getting somewhere between 35 and 105. Scroopers can realistically expect to collect 50 rare metals per hour while clearing salvage fields manually.
- Stationary harvesters turn one liquid container of petrol into 62.5k salvage. For oil hexes, it may or may not be beneficial to use the excavator upgrade, which produces just 30% of the salvage but does it all the time without consuming nodes: the total yield becomes better if someone manually harvests the field. It isn't worth it at all for non-oil hexes as the harvester becomes 5 times less fuel-efficient.
- Coal stationary harvesters have the same speed as salvage stationary harvesters except they are 4x more fuel efficient, turning one liquid container into 250k coal. They are typically fed with locally-produced petrol from a coal liquefier.
- Stationary harvesters on component and sulfur fields in non-oil hexes are barely worth it: it usually takes 3-5 minutes to bring one liquid container of heavy oil, which becomes 4500 of corresponding resource, which you can harvest in ~6 minutes with a mobile harvester. They take ~17 minutes to fill up at 5/5 queues (7500), and you also miss out on the shiny nodes. They are great in the brief window between T2 and unlocking mobile harvesters, as sledge hammers are 4x slower. People rarely build them in non-oil hexes because of the freerider problem and difficulties in doing fuel runs with a train. Also, the orders are likely to expire while the field is empty.
- Stationary component harvesters can be upgraded to excavators, which consume a lot of heavy oil and produce damaged components, which are then turned into normal components at a facility. They produce very little and you need to empty them every 5 minutes, which is why they are pretty much only used by bots in oil hexes. One such botted field can produce 120k components per day.
- Refinery limits that matter are 12.5k bmats (25k salvage, taking 1h 40m), 12k emats (60k salvage, taking 31h), 6k hemats (30k sulfur, taking 25h) and 6k rmats (120k comps at 90 rmats per hour). You usually do not want to make diesel, but you can use its queue as a temporary storage for salvage (60k, burning at 3k per hour). If you are bottlenecked by the speed of refinery, you can find a friend and give salvage from your queue to them: repeatedly cancel your order, filling the inventory of the refinery, while they are shift-clicking on it. Refinery orders expire if not touched for 50 hours, and there is a 32k limit for public resources, with the overflow being wasted: clear them out as soon as possible, especially if >20k. If possible, put public bmats directly into shipping containers or turn them into items at a factory to minimize pull times (pulling bmats from public is almost slower than making new ones).
- Unpowered facilties are often built on resource fields for storage: up to 32k can be stored in private queues. For distant fields, you want to clear an entire field and efficiently transport everything you've harvested with a train or a freighter. Keep in mind that resources in private orders expire and go public if not touched for 28 hours (?). Similar to refineries, public stockpiles have a limit of 32k, so some resources may get wasted if not collected promptly. 
- When using stationary harvesters and mines, you only really spend about a minute to fill a small train or a resource container, and you can do something useful while you're waiting for them to refill: transporting the salvage to where you need it (usually a refinery), manufacturing, moving MPF crates, filling containers, pulling from public, doing facility work. To have some more leeway, you can store the extra resources you can't (or don't want to) transport in the inventory of the mine/harvester or the stockpile of a nearby facility, and bring small trains back to salvage fields and mines to have them partially filled.
- When clearing a field and bringing salvage to the refinery with a small train, you can set one private order in the stationary harvester, letting you collect 10k salvage at once without waiting for the other 2.5k to fill, and also gives you some extra time to do other things between the runs. You can park the train at the refinery, lock it, and switch to a truck for setting factory orders, but remember to unlock it when you return it to the field, and explain to others what you're doing because locking small trains is unusual. The harvesters wouldn't stall if you empty them every 3 minutes when running 5 public orders (plus one minute to collect the remaining 2.5k), 3.75 minutes if one of them is private, 10 minutes if there are 5 public excavator orders (plus 3 minutes to collect the remaining 2.5k), and 9 minutes on average (it takes up to 11 minutes to fill up from zero) if there are 4 public excavator orders and one normal private order. Your private order can hold up to 1800 salvage. Setting a private excavator order is not worth it because it can only hold 600. Always switch it back to public when you're done.
- If you're primarily interested in salvage (as opposed to rare metals and tech materials), you should always use stationary harvesters — even in non-oil hexes, even before trains are unlocked to move petrol efficiently, and even if you don't have anything to do while the harvesters are filling. The best ways to make bmats/emats is either by using fields close (<400m) to a refinery in a process just described before or by emptying harvesters while doing some other facility work and moving the salvage with a big train. Note that some refineries do not allow easy access with a small or big train.
- Some refineries have convenient water access, allowing freighters to be directly unloaded from a train. Notable locations include Isawa, Ulster Falls and Saltbrook (when they have refineries). "Scroop ports" can be constructed in other locations, with freighters (or Bowheads) dropping off resources at an RTS, which is then moved a small distance to a refinery with a small train.
- It is useful to have infantry kit factories and ammo facs next to or on the way to component/sulfur mines and fields, or facilities that produce sulfur as a byproduct (sulfuric generator, coal liquerifer, coke furnace), as you can ship emats/hemats one way and bring raw resources back for free.
- When manually scrooping for rares — first of all, evaluate your life choices, and ask yourself what kind of person you are if instead of making ~15k crates of bmats you decide to spend 20 hours scrooping for rares to get a frigate, which is essentially just two arty guns and four pallets of 120mm that can float. But if you do scroop for rares, at least put the salvage in public storage in nearby RTSes and facilities, and don't come to the busy fields close to refineries and insist on manually scrooping them instead of using stationary harvesters. One reason is that these fields are critically used for bmats, and they need to be cleared as fast as possible as every minute of delay prevents ~1k salvage from spawning, and another reason is that people can do something else while clearing those fields with stationary harvesters (transport the salvage and maybe even manufacture between the runs, depending on how long the train line is), while this is usually not the case for more distant fields. You can also partially scroop a field to test if it drops rares, and then switch to using stationary harvesters if it does not.
- Keep in mind that others are using the same resources. Don't build resource-intensive facilities close to refineries. Instead of competing with OCdts for components in MPF hexes, scroop more distant fields and move the components with trains and freighters. This goes without saying, but you're not contributing anything to your faction by auto-clicking on a component mine, going to a saturated component field or grabbing salvage from harvesters with a truck when someone is already using a small train for moving it. That said, resources are overall abundant: a single salvage field can produce a million salvage (or 5k bmat crates) per day, which is more than enough for an entire lane.

## Manufacturing

- It is better to manufacture with resources straight from your refinery queue as you can interleave it with scrooping and save on unnecessary trips to the depot. If you're not doing anything useful while waiting for your factory orders to complete, you're doing it wrong.
- Use factories closer to the frontline for manufacturing cheaper items for transportation efficiency. One resource container of bmats turns into 2.5 containers of bayonets or 1.2 containers of 7.62. This also applies to all MPF vehicles and strucutres: one resource container of rmats is >4 MPF crates of tanks, with much greater time savings for cheaper vehicles. One exception is shirts and meds: they cost 80 (60 for first aid kit), but producing them is often the bottleneck, so make them everywhere all the time.
- Many items can be more efficiently produced in facilities — in terms of both resources and transportation. Infantry kit factories are more efficient even than MPFs. Ammo facs are more expensive than the MPF but offer transportation benefits. Tripod weapons cost rmats in factories and MPFs and are ridiculously cheaper in a tripod. You can hover over an item to see where it can be produced. You only want to set factory orders in three categories: small arms, utility and medical (these can not be manufactured anywhere else — except for tripods, sandbags, barbed wire and metal beams in the utility category). You also may want to manufacture mammons and nevilles (if you're Warden). You usually do not want to spend rmats to make anything in factories (except ospreays on the Warden side as they can't be MPFed).
- When deciding what to make, it is useful to screenshot the target depot, your stockpile in the logi town, combine them in the stockpile scanner, and prioritize the missing items.
- Nothing that uses emats, except for mammons, harpas/bomas and satchels/hydras, is efficient to manufacture in factories or MPFs. Donate your extra emats to people running IKFs (or just put them in resource containers by the refinery and people will pick them up). There might also be a public IKF in the logi town where you can queue something yourself.
- Always queue 9 item crates in MPFs for a maximum total discount of ~39% and 5 vehicle/structure crates for a ~30% discount. Use the MPF to manufacture items that cost rmats and emats. A full queue of crates with base cost of 15-25-30-35-40 rmats costs 79-134-165-189-220. Spend your hemats on 250mm and 150mm. Queue 120mm only if you're supplying a large ship, or if it's early war and you need to stockpile some shells in preparation to unlocking artillery.
- It usually makes sense to MPF msupps, but not make them in factories. Use them to msupp the logi town itself (and also bring wrenches and radios).
- If you are using the storage depot to grab bmats, turn it into crates and submit them back, you may want the average cost of the crates to be close to 100 bmats (otherwise there will be a volume imbalance and you'll be driving empty trucks in one of the directions).
- Different items take different amounts of time to complete. When you know you won't visit the factory soon, order those that take longer. Usually, more expensive items take more time. Notably, shirts take much longer to manufacture than meds.
- If you need to grab a specific amount of resources (e.g., rmats) from a refinery, you can control-click on stacks of some other resources to leave only a certain number of slots empty before retrieving your refinery order. You can also transfer a part of a stack to the refinery inventory and fill the remainder to 100 if you need to grab less than 100.
- Some logi towns have a small train with 4 stowheels for manufacturing. Use it when warranted, but don't spend too much time on it because others need it too.
- You can manufacture/MPF with a shipping container, but the benefits are dubious.
- You can submit crates directly into a shipping container and then deliver it where you want, bypassing a storage depot and its pull times. In some logi towns a perpetual "container yard" is organized, where anyone can grab full containers and ship them wherever they want. At a minimum you can have 1-2 containers for collecting public crates from expired factory orders. The downside of a container yard is that you can't make precise deliveries. When manufacturing for a container yard, it's better to order balanced sets of widely used items (e.g., rifles and 7.62) as you don't know where they will be delivered. You can also put crates into a shipping container temporarily and move it to the seaport when full, which is handy in places where the factories are distant from the seaport (notably, Tine, with its ~600m round-trip).

## General facilities

- Facilities have a steep learning curve and require a significant time investment. For deliveries and manufacturing, the productivity difference between an average and an expert logi is ~5x at most, but for facilities it is much more extreme, with an average facility not producing anything useful at all or even being net negative for the faction, and best facilities producing trainloads of equipment per day and carrying the entire region. Running a facility efficiently requires a lot of math and careful planning. Before spending >100 hours building and maintaining one, ask someone experienced for an opinion.
- The first thing you want to optimize for a facility is recipes. There are several options for generating power and making intermediary materials like cmats and pcons. Facility Calculator and Wiki are useful for exploring them.
- The second (and closely related) thing you want to optimize is transportation efficiency. You never have all resources in one place, so you want to choose a location that minimizes the total time to transport inputs, fuel and finished goods. Remember that the supply chain doesn't end when equipment leaves your facility but when it is used to fire at an enemy. Some processes have a larger shipping volume of inputs than outputs, so you want to build the facilities closer to resource fields, and for others it's the reverse, and you want to build them closer to the destination. Facilities want to be distributed. Reasonable places to build them are close to resource fields and frontline storage depots. At the same time, clustering facilities is beneficial because you can share defenses and do something useful while waiting for harvesters to fill.
- In addition to transportation efficiency, multiple users of a facility built on a field could share the burden of building and maintaining it.
- Your facility will have both positive and negative externalities for the faction. You are not playing Factorio: this is a team game. Do not build any resource-intensive facilities (especially pcon printers and msupp farms) close to refineries — you will both hamper the bmat production and get a lot of competition for that salvage. An exception might be made for crate-producing facilities, and in that case try to use the second-closest field for cmats and msupps — they are salvage-dense and can be moved with a truck or a small train.
- Facilities with a very high output-to-input ratio (ammo facs, upgrade pads) need to be as close to the frontline as you can get away with, and move with the frontline.
- Think about defenses, especially if your facility has large stockpiles or expensive hijackable equipment like battle tanks and trains. Good places for a faciltiy are behind natural choke points like rivers and mountain passes, and behind secure towns that have storage depots and refineries. Don't build them in front of those choke points as they will interfere with defenses (on top of being more vulnerable).
- You want to have good railway, road or water access, and preferably share existing railway to avoid adding extra switches. It's useful to have an arching railway loop where you can both park and load/unload a train, especially with using the crane trick to submit materials directly to the facilities. In addition to navy piers, you can build "foundation ports" for loading and unloading freighters: if a foundation extends into water, you can attach one more foundation piece to it regardless of elevation. Any facility buildings can be placed on top of it.
- Outline your facility in Foxhole Planner first. Plan its layout around the most common use cases. You can put buildings that are rarely or never used (e.g., the power grid, especially if the fuel is piped) somewhere else without obstructing the more used bits. Make sure small trains and cranes can reach what you want.
- When building a facility, place foundations first to test if they are buildable at all, and build railway tracks last because you will only have 6 hours to demolish them. Most facility buildings can be demolished within 28 days if they don't have active orders in them.
- The game will allow you to place a foundation that has some ground on top of it, but facilities can't overlap with it. When building on uneven terrain, you can place a foundation blueprint on a higher ground and attach another piece to artificially elevate it.
- Try to use 2x2 foundations instead of 1x1, 1x2 or corners. This way you can save msupps, gravel and concrete if you decide to upgrade them.
- All facilities except power generators can have up to 5 orders set by different players. Public orders use the facility stockpile for inputs and outputs and run as long as they have the resources or power. Private orders are set by manually putting resources (except for liquids which are piped), reserve the outputs for 28 hours (?), and allow instantly retrieving them (and also retrieving as crates). When conditions are not met, orders are first temporarily paused and cancel after ~4 hours. To clear all facility orders, you can power it off for 4 hours. It is useful to constantly have a specific set of of public orders in a building and control production by submitting resources to various buildings (one materials factory exclusively for msupps, another for cmats, etc.). You can install signs telling people what should be queued.
- You can reserve a facility, forbidding people not in the squad to upgrade buildings, connect pipelines and power lines and turn power switches on and off, and also letting squad members demolish any buildings, but you should think about whether you want it or not. If you are building some critical infrastructure (e.g., a frontline ammo fac), it's usually not a good idea to do it: people should be able to get it operational if part of it is destroyed while you're offline. People may sometimes come up with ideas to add a useful crane or a small railway, and you want to let them do it right away.
- Resources are abundant. You only need a "claim" if you are producing battle tanks (you need a coal and an oil field). Everything else is negligible (even a drydock making ships 24/7 would only consume about 25% of an oil field).
- Don't stockpile materials, except maybe in preparation to certain tech unlocks. They have opportunity cost, they might get destroyed by partisans, and your plans might change.

## Power

- Facilities with active orders consume power. It does not matter if they have 1 order or 5 orders. Unless power is infinite, you want to always have 5/5 orders. Sometimes public orders without any available inputs still remain "active" and consume power despite not producng anything.
- Power-generating buildings have a maximum capacity. When it is not reached, they consume fuel proportionally to the demand, possibly scaling down to zero. Partially powered buildings work at fractional efficiency; this includes stationary cranes, which would rotate slower. The total limit for a single grid is 30 MW. The "overflow" power is not wasted: everything over 30 MW will simply not be generated.
- Power can be transmitted up to 20 power poles away, or 500m in total. If you're using coal/coke for power, you can build the power stations at the coal field (or in some place where unloading it is more convenient) and build a power line to the main facility (which is usually located closer to a salvage field and/or a storage depot). You can actually extend the 500m range: a building needs to have some active power source within 20 power poles, but the grid is shared for everything connected. This lets you install something slow-burning like a diesel generator in the same grid with several power stations which will take the main load just to extend the network.
- The best option for power is to build facility in an oil hex because oil can be piped, and your power will be free except for building and msupping the grid.
- The second-best option is building a facility close to a coal field as described above.
- The third-best option is to build a facility close to a refinery and use diesel for power. You want to either have an LTS in range of the refinery crane or have a small gauge railway with a train and fuel cars transporting 200L at a time. Note that LTS draining might be a bottleneck. The salvage cost for making diesel is small but not negligible.
- Otherwise, you have to import fuel, and the efficiency of doing it depends on the type and distance. Energy densities per shippable (resource or liquid container) are 41.6 MWh for coal when using power stations (power plants are half as efficient, you shouldn't build them), 30 MWh for petrol, 25 MWh for diesel, 88.9 for coke in sulfuric reactor, 32 MWh for heavy oil in sulfuric reactor. Note that you can bring heavy oil from offshore platforms, which is handy for coastal hexes.
- You also get some sulfur as a sulfuric reactor byproduct. One container of coke becomes 833 sulfur and one container of heavy oil becomes 300 sulfur (or 3600/day for both if run at full capacity).
- Power stations require some water, but they consume it so slowly that instead of piping water you can just place a liquid container and periodically click on the refuel button. A single container would last for about a week.

## Msupps

- Buildings have a "grace period" or 1-2 days during which they do not decay (but consume msupps nontheless), and then they start slowly losing HP and take about a day for most buildings to fully decay. Repairing resets the grace period (one hammer hit is enough to stop the decay). Defensive structures (bunkers and pillboxes) decay faster. Msupps repair damaged buildings at 1% per hour.
- Do not bring msupps to recently constructed frontline bases. Wait for about day, until they actually start decaying.
- Most building consume one msupp per hour. This includes containers and tripods, but not signs (they are only destroyed by downvoting) and landmines (they despawn after two days). Underground pipelines consume 4 msupps, gravel roads consume 2. You can see the consumption rate in the interface of bases and maintenance tunnels.
- Maintenance tunnels have larger range than bases (100m vs. ?) and allow limiting range and filtering what to supply.
- If you want to get rid of a part of a base, you can cut its msupps (maintenance tunnels are useful here) and wait for around two days. In order to prevent people from inadvertently supplying it, make it clear that the base is in controlled decay by installing signs and adding a map post.
- Msupps are most easily made in materials factories built right next to mines and salvage fields. One msupp takes 7.5 salvage. They can also be made in MPF (1.52 bmats / 3.05 salvage) and factories (2.5 bmats / 5 salvage), but factories are usually not worth it. MPFed msupps can be used for supplying the town base itself. If you are moving msupps across hexes, you are usually doing something wrong.
- You can distribute msupps from matfacs to maintenance tunnels via trucks (1500 per truck — and it is better to crate them to move faster, and use a taurine / landrunner if there are no roads), a small-gauge train (6000) or a big train with infantry cars in extreme cases: theoretically, the most efficient setup is with three locomotives — two one the ends and one in the middle — and two blocks of 6 infantry cars, with 168 inventory slots in total. A short double-ended train with 6 infantry cars or a normal flatbed train with dunnes or stowheels for containers works too. But if you're moving msupps over long distances, you should ask yourself whether you've built your facility in the right spot in the first place.
- Msupps are relatively salvage-dense: one small train with four stowheels filled with msupps represents 45k salvage. If you are maintaining a base that has a salvage mine/field that is used for something else (e.g., it is close to a refinery), it might be better to import them from the second closest salvage source.

## Liquids

(in progress)

- Liquids can be piped, which is automatic and doesn't require any labor except for building a pipeline.
- There are normal pipelines (costs 1 pipe), overhead pipelines (costs 2 pipes and must be build on a foundation) and underground pipelines (costs 5 pipes and additionally consumes 4 msupps per hour instead of 1). Each type is up to 20m in length. Use overhead and underground pipelines when you need to leave some space for vehicles to pass (especially leave some space for a railway)
- Pipes are made from 3 pcons at a metalworks factory. NEVER make public orders or pipes or all your pcons will be eaten. If a metalworks factory is far away, put some spare pipes in the nearest town base: you or someone else might suddenly need them.
- Pipelines can have three branches (two pipes can connect to the middle of a pipe from each side).
- For longer pipelines, you may need to periodically place liquid transfer stations or fuel silos to maintain high flow rate (?).
- If you need to pipe both petrol and heavy oil over long distances, instead of building two separate pipelines, you can pipe oil and refine it into both at the destination.
- When importing petrol, it is slightly more efficient to import raw oil and use a reformer to mix it with water. It produces 25% more petrol per liquid container, and you can also "bank" larger amounts. The refinery consumes 1 MW though.
- An LTS can hold up to 500 cans but it fills and drains relatively slowly, which might be a bottleneck. A common setup for oil fields is to have four LTSes, two with petrol and two with heavy oil, accessible with a large train. The flow rate is enough to let a solo train driver fill 12-13 liquid containers.
- Pipelines can freeze in a blizzard. This is very rare and mitigated by insulating the pipelines, which costs one more pipe.
- Water pumps can be built on any body of water. They do not require any power.
- Reaching Trail uniquely doesn't have access to pumpable water, causing some problems when the hex has oil or coal. Oil fields can't use reformers or frackers, reducing their effective yield by 40% and often making pcon printers bottlenecked by oil. Running coal liquefiers to make concrete and petrol from coal becomes uneconomical. Making steel efficiently requires water, which needs to be imported — to utilize return trips, you can export diesel or oil products to another hex and return with water. 

## Common facility processes

- **Cmats** can be either made from 10 salvage or 5 salvage mixed with petrol or coke. If using petrol, you want to either pipe petrol to a salvage field or bring salvage to a facility in an oil hex (but if you're doing that, you should ask yourself why you're not just using salvage in the oil hex). You rarely want to mix with coke unless there are two fields very close by, and when you do, you want to utilize return trips: install smelters on both ends and both transport salvage to coke and coke to salvage. A small amount of cmats is also produced while making sandbags, wire and beams.
- **Pcons** can be made either from 20 components or with a "vegan" recipe that uses cmats and heavy oil. Vegan pcons cost 95 salvage in an oil hex if you can mix salvage with petrol. If you are far away from oil and need pcons, you can instead import heavy oil (from an oil field or an offshore platform) and make them on the spot: one liquid container of heavy oil is good for 300 pcons (you also need to collect 165 local salvage per pcon as you can't mix it with petrol). If you have convenient railway access, importing pcons is usually easier than making them locally. If you are importing pcons from an oil hex and your destination has coal (or there is some coal on the way), consider bringing pallets a1s on your return trip: oil hexes need them to make battle tanks. There is also a "slightly vegan" recipe that turns 55 components and 6L of heavy oil into 3 pcons. 
- **Concrete** can also be made either the simple way, from 20 components in a concrete mixer, or the vegan way, from coal, also producing petrol and sulfur as a byproduct.
- **Enriched oil** is either made from heavy oil and sulfur, or the vegan way, by bringing coal to an offshore platform. Dropping two freighters of coal produces one freighter of enriched oil.
- **Assembly materials** are made by mixing salvage with different resources: a1 is coke, a2 is petrol, a3 is sulfur, a4 is heavy oil. It is always more transportation-efficient to produce them at the field instead of importing raw resources.
- **Steel** is always better produced with the enriched oil recipe. Its main ingredients are pcons and coke, with equal shipping volume.

## Upgrade pads

- Upgrade pads are extremely easy to run. They require small amount of energy, small amounts of cmats from the closest salvage mine or field, and imports of various assembly materials which are best made at their respective resource fields.
- MPF crates include 3 vehicles (5 for Falchions) and most upgrades require between 5 and 30 pcons and amats, which makes it several times more efficient to build upgrade pads closer to a frontline depot and ship base vehicles in MPF crates instead of shipping upgraded vehicles.
- In the late-game, upgrade pads can be placed in the backline to be used with bluefins. In this case, transportation of vehicles is irrelevant, and you just need a convenient water access and optimize for the ease of getting assembly materials.
- The most common upgradable vehicles include ramparts, outlaws and wildjacks on the Warden side and spathas, smeleters and taloses on the Colonial side.
- Whether the weapons platform should be on the frontline is debatable. It is expensive, requires a stockpile of steel for most upgrades, and the transportation savings are questionable.
- Upgrades take 5-7 minutes to complete. To avoid waiting, you can either duplicate the pads or find something else to do in the meantime. It is especially useful to have a field station next to a frontline depot for upgrading push guns and bringing them with a heavy truck during frontline logi runs.
- You need a functioning small assembly station in general to print pallets, small train parts and firetrucks, and a field station is also useful for making ACVs (10 pcons) and heavy trucks (40 pcons).
- Field Modification Center: don't. Vetting vehicles is not worth the pcon/amat investment at all. Instead of buffing the HP of a tank by 10% you can make 2-3 more tanks. It *might* be worth it for armored trucks, vetting which only costs 150 cmats (+450 for tier 3).

## Crate-producing facilities

- There are ~35 non-larp crated items that can (and should) be produced in facilities. Apart from most items costing less in terms of raw resources when made facilities instead of factories and even MPFs, the biggest advantage is that you can place these facilities anywhere, massively saving time on transportation of salvage to refineries and finished goods to frontline storage depots.
- **Assembly bay** can produce sangbags, barbed wire and metal beams. It is very cheap to build and operate: you just need a salvage mine or a field and some cheap power source, and it can also produce msupps and cmats. You mostly want to produce them crated and submit to the nearest storage depot: fill a truck with salvage, start a private order, come back in an hour and use the "retrieve as crates" interaction. Sometimes it is useful to have a few pallets of sandbags, wire or beams laying around for builders to pick up, but you should mostly care about crated ones.
- **Tripod factories** produce tripods and all tripod weapons. They offer great resource savings as tripod weapons in factories and MPFs they cost rmats, and in a tripod fac they only cost 10 and 15 cmats per crate of tripods and any tripod weapons respectively. Similar to the assembly bay, the best way to operate them is to grab a full truck of cmats, put it all in a private order, come back an hour later and offload a hundred-ish crates either to a shipping conatainer or straight to a storage depot. Tripods can be palleted, but you shouldn't do it because they are never needed in such quantities. Tripod factory is a cheap upgrade of ammunition factory, which in turn costs 25 pcons. Any ammunition factory can also produce mines (which are also better crated) and flame ammo with some emats and hemats. It is very cost-effective to have a tripod factory in every frontline hex, if not next to every storage depot. Tripod factories can also produce banners, which requires a1s (coke).
- **Infantry kit factories** are much harder to run efficiently. They consume a lot of power and produce crates slowly, but the cost is even lower than in the MPF. The base building only produces uniforms; **Small Arms Workshop** produces AT grenades, mortar shells, smoke grenades and 20mm; **Heavy Munitions Foundry** produces tank and RPG shells (and consumes 24MW while doing it, twice as much as others), and **Special-Issue Firearms Assembly** produces upgraded AT rifles and incendiary mortar shells (notably, these items can't be produced anywhere else). The upgrades are moderately expensive: SAW costs 175 pcons, HMF costs 250, and SIFA costs 35. The base building only costs 250 cmats and can be built from day one, but before T2 it is only viable if built next to a coal field for making medic and armor uniforms.
- For all SAW recipes and some cheaper HMF recipes, it is more efficient in terms of transportation to have the building closer to the frontline (one resource container of emats becomes more than one shipping container of crates), while for more expensive HMF recipes it is the opposite (one resource container or emats becomes 40 crates of 40/68mm shells).
- IKFs are typically only viable if you don't need to import fuel. Aim to always run IKFs with 5/5 orders unless the power is infinite (oil field).
- IKFs can produce a lot of crates over time. A single facility with one of each type and a 30 MW power grid can easily supply 2-3 lanes if run 24/7 at 5/5 orders.
- SIFA is different from other upgrades and somewhat awkward to operate. It outputs one crate at a time and outputs them fast, and requires little power. Upgraded AT rifles require pcons and a2s (petrol); quickhatches (AT sniper rifles) require a1s (coke) instead of a2s. You want to make them on a salvage field/mine in an oil hex (for vegan pcons) and import base rifle crates. If you're a Warden, you want to make nevilles in factories and mass-upgrade them to satterleys (they are more powerful and also come 5 per crate while nevilles are just 3, same as greyhounds, dawns and quickhatches). For incendiary shells you need shrapnel crates and flame ammo (hemats); you sometimes want to build a SIFA next to a SAW just to make incendiary shells. Luckily, this is not an expensive building: it just takes space.
- Crates produced in IKFs become *disassembled* and can only be submitted to a storage depot, seaport, bluefin or a shipping container — but not directly to a base. They are best pulled with a small gauge train and submitted to shipping container to be then delivered to a frontline storage depot.
- Everything you submit to a **Crate Transfer Station** also becomes disassembled. They only hold 200 crates but take the space of 8-10 double-stacked shipping containers. The only legitimate use for a CTS is to bring base rifles to be upgraded to AT rifles in shipping containers, and move them with a small train to a SIFA.
- There are two styles of running IKFs. One is to build it next to a refinery and let people come with their own emats, make/pull cmats from some facility and put a private order. Another is to use public orders, either coordinated by the facility maintainer or relying on common sense of people who set them to avoid overproduction. Ask your clanmates or regularly seen locals to set queues, whisper the people you find in logs if you want to cancel/change an order. If you can't find them, you can power off the facility to reset the orders.
- It takes about two minutes to pull a full container of crates with a small train. Retrieving private orders is instant, but relying on private orders is challenging because people would often forget to retrieve them, and you can't allow members of a squad to pick them up like you do in an MPF, so they will often just become public in 28 hours anyway.

## Ammo facs

- Hemat compression works strongly in favor of making light arty shells closer to where they will be fired: one resource container of hemats is 20.83 pallets of 120mm, 75mm, 94.5mm or rockets. For 150mm, you get 3.47 pallets out of a resource container, which is slightly favorable to transporting them crated in shipping containers (2.5 pallets per). 150mm and especially 250mm are expensive, and it is worth to MPF them (you shouldn't produce anything else in the heavy ammunition queue).
- Choosing a location for an ammo fac involves a delicate balance. The building itself is quite expensive (175 pcons for large shell factory) and its stockpile is many times more valuable and should be protected, while at the same time you should put ammo facs as close to the frontline as you can get away with for transportation efficiency. The cmat and power cost are relatively small, and you should mainly just strike a good trade-off between security and transportation of shells to the frontline.
- Either private or public queues can be used. When using public queues, make sure not to overproduce: install signs, whisper people to cancel their orders, periodically power off the building.
- You want to lay out the facility in way that lets you pull shells with a small train with flatbed cars and submit them to an MTS without moving the train. Always add a small assembly station for printing pallets. There should be a crane that can grab a pallet from the pad, put it on an MTS to load shells (and ideally also be able to use the crane trick to instantly pull shells from a private order), and put it on a flatbed truck — with minimum angle between the MTS and the flatbed parking spot. It's good to also install signs explaining how to use the ammo fac.
- A small train with 4 flatbed cars could be used for exporting shells to distant locations. You can either submit the shells to an MTS or a pallet, or fire shells straight out of a train.
- It is good to have spare ammo of every type at all times, preferably already palleted or in an MTS. It might make sense to restrict 150mm so that noobs don't shoot it at tanks and infantry: it is 6 times more expensive than 120mm and is only economical against buildings. An MTS can be reserved for a squad (the only storage that allows reservations).
- 300mm should be made next to a pcon printer instead of the frontline. It has a complicated manufacturing process. A single shell is 200 sulfur, 980 salvage and a lot of heavy oil, and a single pallet requires scrooping one entire sulfur field and two salvage fields.

## Battle tanks

(in progress)

- Battle tank production is a complicated and very resource-intensive process that requires a coal field, a salvage field close to a coal field, a salvage field in an oil hex, and sometimes an offshore platfrom.
- Tanks themselves are "printed" either on coal, on oil, or both at the same time for maximum efficiency, but security is a very serious concern, so usually a single safest spot is chosen.
- Coal fields need imports of pcons, a2s and a4s, of which vegan pcons are the main imports. Pcons are often replaced by components with questionable externalities for the faction.
- Oil fields need imports of coke and a1s, of which coke is the main import.
- Often a1s and a2s are "traded" between the fields to utilize return trips.
- Sulfur is also required for making enriched oil and a3s, but it is usually fully or almost fully covered by byproducts of processing coal and oil. Enriched oil can be supplemented with offshore platforms.
- Close pairs of coal and oil fields are extremely valuable, especially in the rare cases when they are in the same hex.
- Oversimplifying, one battle tank (Flood) requires clearing three coal/salvage fields and moving about 8 pallets from an oil field to a coal field. If using components instead of vegan pcons, you need to clear one fewer salvage field and move 4 fewer pallets, but 10k components should be delivered at the coal field (which could alternatively be used to MPF 5 tanks). Assuming that it takes ~20 minutes to clear a field and ~40 minutes for a round trip between the fields with a full train, this puts the marginal labor cost of a battle tank at 1-1.5 hours (with an opportunity cost at 10-15 MPF tanks delivered to a frontline depot).
- The math for other battle tanks is the same. An SPG is ~2.5x more expensive and an SHT is ~5x more expensive (including 60 rare metals).
- Keep in mind that the time investment of building the facility itself and its defenses is very considerable unless you somehow know in advance that the war would last 40+ days and planning on printing hundreds of battle tanks.

## Big toys

(in progress)

- The main cost of large ships, storm cannons and nukes is rare metals. It takes ~20 hours to farm rares for a frigate and as low as one hour to move around various materials on a salvage field in an oil hex.
- Costs: bowhead/longhook 640, frigate/destoryer 960, submarine 1200, bluefin 2000, battleship 3200, SC 800, RSC 2000, nuke 7000, nuke launch pad 2000 (can be reused for other nukes).
- An **Advanced Structure Manufactory** is required ror printing large structures, including nukes; it costs 700 rare metals. A **Naval Works** is required for printing ship parts; it costs additional 200 rare metals and might be a bottleneck, so you might want to have several. A **Dry Dock** is required for printing the ships themselves, and it costs 700 rare metals. Dry docks are also needed for repairing ships (the cost of repair is negligible but it takes up to 4 hours, proportional to the damage) and rearming submarines with torpedoes. A dry dock can be demolished and refunded within 3 hours of building; it can be built just to rearm a submarine or quickly repair a ship and be refunded, but this is a semi-exploit. 
- Battleships, frigates and destroyers can be resupplied while in the water by barges with crated ammo.
- It is useful to have an ammo fac right next to a drydock for making torpedoes and crated 120mm/150mm. Torpedoes are 5 per pallet and are hard to transport.
- RSCs, SCs and other large structures require non-negligible amounts of other materials in addition to rare metals. Battleships additionally require 80 a5s which the drydock operators usually do not provide (they require a lot of coal while everything else requires just salvage and oil). They also take a very long time to print (blocking a naval works for 2.5 days and dry dock for 10 hours).
- Rare metals are usually stored either in loose form in trucks or resource containers hooked on a squadlocked train, or made into alloys (20:1) and put either in a squadlocked MTS or a storage depot if reservable.
- Security is extremely important, especially for dry docks and other facilities storing rare alloys and their derivatives. A longhook can be parked next to a dry dock for AI defenses against seaborn attacks.
- A **Bluefin** is most useful when being deployed in places without any storage depots (because they were nuked, the industry haven't teched yet, or during naval invasions) and for mass-transporting logi between seaports. They are especially good for tanks and other vehicles, especially mass-upgraded ones.
- Bluefins only have a single public stockplie, and pulling from it is about three times faster than from a depot. The best way to load/unload a bluefin is to use its crane to put a shipping container on a pad of a seaport, use "retrive custom" interaction to fill it 15 crates at a time, and shift-E to the seaport or the bluefin to submit it without packing or moving anything. It is also useful to have a bluefin parked at a backline seaport to submit crates directly into it.
- Bluefins are vulnerable and very expensive (it takes ~40 hours just to farm the rares). The stockpile is often even more expensive than the ship itself. It is important to manage the stockpile and not oversupply anything to avoid unnecessary risk. You usually run out of shirts and bmats first: max them out at 1000 crates before deploying.
- When a bluefin is deployed at an active seaport, unload its contents into the seaport before it leaves, especially the missing equipment.
- Bluefins very rarely justify the investment. A bluefin needs to either move ~50k crates of logi to a frontline seaport (assuming it takes ~5 minutes to deliver a shippable with a train or a freighter) or distribute ~10k crates to the frontline while being deployed in a hex without a depot (assuming it saves frontline logis 5 minutes per round trip) just to recoup the time spent farming rares. This calculation doesn't account for time discounting (logi on day 20 is much more valuable than on day 50), the extra time spent protecting the bluefin while it is deployed and the risk of losing it along with all its cargo: about half of all bluefins die during a long war, and those that do not die mostly just sit ramp-up in the backline the entire war. Essentially, the only net-positive bluefins are those that are deployed for a total of >100 hours on a busy frontline hex without any storage depots, but situations like these mostly arise when your faction is rapidly advancing, and the bluefin acts as a win-more kind of asset.
- A **Bowhead** can transport 95k resources at a time (~3x more than a freighter), but it's slower, larger and less maneuverable — but mainly very expensive and thus a big target. Realistically, it is twice as efficient as a freighter and but takes ~13 hours to make, so the investment pays off if you intend to drive freighters with resource containers for >26 hours. It is very niche and should only be used in safe internal waters where big trains are not an option.
- Do not park any large ships immediately left or right of seaports. People need to be able to load and unload freighters and spawn gunboats.

## Defenses

(in progress)

- Scale your defenses with the value of what they protect and how hard it is for partisans to get to the facility in the first place. Battle tank facilities and buildings with large stockpiles should be protected, while train "tails" and msupp farms are almost never targeted. Prioritize building communal defences that make an entire area safe instead of just maintaining a "bubble" around your facility.
- If a building is not dehusked, you can rebuild it is relatively cheap, and you don't lose its stockpile. You only pay the base cost of a building; its upgrade comes for free.
- Because of this, fires are less of a hazard (unless followed by dehusking), but you should still have a firetruck or two ready. Communicate with your neighbors so that they know where it is.
- Facility buildings and their husks have a relatively high HP. They are often dehusked by destroying foundations instead: it only takes one havoc and a mammon to kill it, destroying everying built on top. You can make foundations concrete to double their HP (it costs 15 concrete for a 2x2 foundation).
- When concreting bunkers, keep in mind that they get slightly larger and a train line (big or small gauge) that worked previously might not work anymore.
- Cranes can be killed with just 3 RPG shots. Keep them protected.
- Leaving tanks fueled and loaded is a recipe for disaster.
- Building within 225m of navigable water is a hazard if an enemy large ship can get in the hex. Storm cannons are a strong deterrent, and large ships usually don't dare crossing bridges not fully controlled by their faction as they might get trapped. Gunboats are cheap and can be suicided, so building anything valuable within 100m of the shore is absolutely not recommended, unless the waterway is protected by a coastal gun.
- Machine gun garrisons can be suppressed, and partisans could climb over them (possibly by placing a storage box blueprint). Make internal defenses (at least pillboxes and rifle garrisons). Place sandbags on edges of bunkers so that they can't be climbed by people and tanks.
- Assume that your facility will be attacked at midnight and the partisans have lunaires (that can shoot within 31m without a straight line of fire) or an outlaw (that can shoot within 45m and ignore MGs).
- Most players, including partisans, do not know the relative value of various facilities. Movable and visible equipment attracts disproportionately more attention. Partisans get more street cred for killing a BT than for dehusking an engineering center or a forge that likely has enough materials to make 10 BTs. Even a maintenance tunnel probably has enough msupps to make it more valuable than a BT, but you wouldn't see people spamming F in intel chat over killing it.
- Infantry mines: don't. Having a prepared minefield to protect against lunaire rushes is good, but random mines spread around a backline facility will just kill friendlies and frustrate truckers who accidentally drive over them. Single mines are also hardto maintains as they expire after two days (prepared minefields do not; they consume 1 msupp per hour).

## Tech progression

(in progress)

- Technology is progressed by bringing tech materials (iron, copper, aluminum) to a refinery to make alloys, and then making prototype kits at the engineering center. Prototype kits allow making either item crates or vehicles from the next tech unlock. Making them is not necessary to advance tech. The item crates usually cost rmats, so it's better to bring the kits to an MPF. Vehicle prototype kits allow hammering 100 bmats into a vehicle at a garage, regardless of what that vehicle would normally cost. The completed vehicles have an HP penalty of 20% and can't be stockpiled or upgraded, but tank prototype kits are nonetheless extremely valuable. You want to bring them to a garage closest to a frontline.
- Order of tech unlocks is partially random. You can see the two next tech levels in each tree at an engineering center. Tech unlock times can be roughly predicted based on past data. Both WUH and Sigil are tracking tech and providing best estimates regarding unlocks.
- At the start of the game, you can't really build much. You can make small trains, produce msupps (which become relevant around day 2), build an oil well and refineries to make petrol (but pipes aren't unlocked yet, so you need to move oil to refineries manually with a small train or a fuel truck) and stockpile cmats in preparation for future tech.
- On day 4, sledge hammers are unlocked, improving harvesting speed of salvage by ~33% and allowing harvesting component and sulfur fields (at a painfully slow rate).
- On day 5, T2 facilities are unlocked. This is the biggest day for facility builders: concrete, pcons, pipes, ammo facs, IKFs, etc.
- On day 7, big trains are unlocked, and the first trains start moving supplies within ~10 hours.
- On day 10, mobile harvesters are unlocked, making scrooping much more efficient, especially for sulfur and components. This unlock is also important because the tech material gets changed: copper becomes obsolete and is replaced with aluminum. Before it unlocks, you should gather all copper from resource fields to engineering centers or it will be useless.
- On day 15, T3 facilities are unlocked. Notably, steel can be produced, which is needed for making facilities more efficient: sulfuric reactor, advanced coal liquefier, excavator.
- On day 20, battle tanks and SHTs are unlocked; people start stockpiling materials 5 days prior to start spamming them as soon as possible.
- On day 25, nukes are unlocked, and tech materials no longer spawn.
- For bases, tech progression depends on how many players set spawn there and whether it gets deliveries. The most important tech for logistics is "industry", which allows rebuilding depots, seaports, refineries, and other logistical buildings. It takes around 2 days to tech it.
- There is an [app](https://foxholestuff.com/progress-calculator) that counts pixels on progress bars (tech and printing pads). It doesn't work from the world map, you need to deploy there and open the building's interface.

## Queues and deployment

- There is a hard limit on the total number of players and a soft limit on the difference between factions' populations in a hex. When it is reached, new players deploying to or crossing into hex enter a queue.
- When you leave a hex and return within 15 minutes, you can bypass the queue, except for the rare cases when the limit on the total number of players is reached (you will just get #1 spot in the queue).
- People driving logistical vehicles can also bypass queues, either jumping in front of the queue or bypassing it entirely. There is a separate population difference limit (?) for allowing logi in without a queue. To get a priority in a truck, it needs to have at least 600 bmats of value (the same for triggering a notification when submitting to a base). This mechanic can be abused: don't do it or the frontline will die without logi.
- You do not want to build particularly labor-intensive facilities in frontline hexes. Aside from security reasons, you will not be able to get in when you need to, and you'll hurt the faction by taking a slot in the queue. At the same time you want to have upgrade pads and ammo facs in the hex as they save time overall.
- When you enter a queue, you do not have to stay at the border. After your turn comes, you will have 5 minutes to cross, which is more than enough time to travel the entire hex on a truck. You can use the time in the queue to run other errands, like building watch towers, emptying mines, delivering msupps/bmats/radios/wrenches to local bases and searching for wreckages. If you are doing a frontline delivery, you can stash your crates in the inventory of some building and bring another load. If the delivery is very time-sensitive, you can also swap trucks at the border with someone who just left the frontline hex.
- Redeploying is often faster than travelling in-game. Keep in mind that there is a limit of 2 deploys for every 5 minute window (?). 

## Diplomacy

(in progress)

- There is no government or law enforcement on either side in Foxhole, but there is an etiquette, a system for claiming resource fields (that not everyone participates in or enforces) and informal unwritten rules for resolving conflicts, subjectively summarized below.
- You can always take raw resources from any field, but not the products of a private facility. It is usually okay to set private queues in someone else's facility with your own resources, or take finished products from a stockpile while providing more than enough inputs to compensate (unless it's something that takes a very long time to process: the maintainer of facility might have specific time-sensitive plans for that stockpile). You can build missing facilities some respectable distance away (the maintainer might have specific plans for some spaces).
- Field claims are for groups that intend to use >30% of a field capacity (clear it >8 times a day). You do not really need claims unless you are making BTs.
- Some locations are tacitly "public". You can build a private base in the middle of nowhere, but you can't privatize an unreasonably large area around a field or a depot and disallow people from using the facilities or building anything. Circling an area on Warden Express doesn't mean you "own" it.
- Making a good railway loop at a depot and refinery and a small railway connection from the closest salvage field to the refinery in backline logi towns takes priority over anything else.
- There are some extremely uncooperative people, especially among large insular clans. Conflicts between them can escalate to civil wars. The side that throws the first mammon is always almost the wrong one.
- Don't take any vehicles from a facility except maybe normal trucks and flatbeds. Especially don't mess with the trains, except that in some salvage fields the big train that is used for fuel runs might be public. If the frontline advances close to the facility and the "owner" is not around, wrench everything and move it to a safe spot: it's public now.
- If a facility has decayed below 50% and its builder is not around, feel free to take anything you want.
- Foxhole doesn't have a rating system or a clear way to measure skill/impact. Players can spend thousands or hours and still be bad at the game or some of its aspects.
- People will be more cooperative towards you if you build a reputation or wear a tag of some group known for public logistics. Player's ranks also act this way, but they are not always indicative of skill level or contribution past a certain point; players can reach high ranks by either doing a lot of honest frontline logistics or engaging in some activities that are suboptimal but let them farm more commends: oversupplying bases with expensive gear, driving dunnes or flatbeds to frontline depots (so that the entire hex gets a notification), pulling crates and submitting them right back, commend trading, getting boosted by clan members, etc.
- You can roughly tell what a player has been doing this war by viewing their activity log (right-click on their name in the chat of F1 screen). Full-cycle logi will have large and roughly equal materials submitted and supply value delivered, facility mains will have large supply value delivered (from moving steel around), rare metal hunters will have large materials gathered, frontline logis will have many teamkills, and people in exclusive leadership/management roles will have their stats at zero (accurately reflecting their contribution to the war effort).
- Reputation of a group is not always indicative of its competence, especially when it comes to logistics. Combat failures on the frontline are very visible, but people only see the supplies delivered by logi players and not how efficiently or inefficiently they were procured. You can achieve things by either being smart and efficient or by having high pop and grinding. Large logi-focused regiments like T-3C, HvL and FMAT aren't as advanced as you might think; many groups are better in at least some aspects of logistics but do not recruit as many logi players to scale up.
- Good engineers can take — and even encourage — constructive criticism and easily agree on what is better, and eventually converge on solutions that are 95% similar. Bad engineers are territorial and say "this is my project and I'll do it my way" a lot. This seems to be an innate characteristic, and these people rarely change. It might be easier to just stay away from them.
- If you need some one-off equipment or material, it is better to ask or trade for it than produce it yourself. It is better to buy a train instead of building all the infrastructure for printing it. You may only need pcons or steel to build or upgrade facilities, but you don't need a constant stream of it. Battle tank production is extremely difficult to set up, but making one *additional* tank requires as low as one hour of labor.
- There are many people who enjoy building and operating big facilities more than they like using the equipment they make. Trains and battle tanks are given away for free or heavily subsidized (you only need to pay 10k components on the Warden side, which amounts to a ~70% subsidy), and large ships are sold for just their rare metal price. Use their services instead of building another facility.
- Many resources can be traded. Rare metals trade for 10-15 rmats on the Warden side. Sometimes regiments buy a large ship and decide they no longer need it and sell it with a discount.
- Train runs require two people communicating with each other in the voice chat. They are useful for training new players and discussing organizational matters.
- Most communication is done in Discord. Keep in mind that people from China, Russia, Turkey and some other non-Western countries with internet restrictions might have problems accessing it (or some specific features like voice chat). This also crates problems for services that use Discord for authentication.

## Shady practices

- Foxhole is a competitive team game, which creates a race to the bottom in terms of using various ethically questionable practices. Where to draw the line is debatable, but it is important to at least know about them.
- It is bannable to use macros more complicated than auto-clickers, but this is rarely reported and enforced. Large clans are often using bots to put resources from a field/mine to a facility and farm msupps, pcons, coke and components (via damaged components).
- Buildings can overlap if two players place them simultaneously. There is also a way to do it solo by attaching a pipe to a building, deleting the building, and placing two buildings at the ends of the pipe (?). This is often used for double-stacking power stations, making a compact chain or LTSes and placing stationary harvesters. 
- Alts are rare but they exist and can cause a lot of damage. Most of them aren't from the other faction: clans often act like assholes and accumulate a lot of enemies, some of whom would alt their bases.
- It is legal to use same-faction alt accounts, but using them to extreme lengths is frowned upon. People use them to set more MPF queues, increase the capacity of refineries, load or drive trains and flag buildings.
- "Black market" trade between factions is bannable. It would be an interesting aspect of the game, but it can not be distinguished from alting.
- You can see very far by switching to an extreme wide screen resolution.
- Partisans can use the !unstuck command to get out of a facility and kill/steal a vehicle.
- There is a technically simple cheat (WOBS) that lets you see the list of enemy players in the current hex, which is used to spot partisans and large ships. It is potentially VAC-bannable (even retroactively), but no bans have been issued yet.
- There are glitchy ways to place a listening kit in the air or hide in places where it will never be find.

## Color-coding

- Liquid containers: yellow is diesel, blue is petrol, red is heavy oil, green is enriched oil, light blue is water, orange is oil, white is empty.
- Warden container yards: red is empty, yellow is loading, white is full, blue is bmats, other colors mean it's something special and the person who filled it knows what to do with it.
- Colonial/HvL-style container yards: red is empty, yellow is loading, **green** is full, other colors reserved for bmats, emats, fuel, etc. (todo: list which is which).
- The two schemes are different because WLL (now HvL) originated container yards back when the set of available colors was different and facilities weren't as important, and stuck to it. Wardens adopted container yards later and use white instead of green because it is more contrasting (and also the rightmost color which is easier to click) and only reserve blue for bmats (you do not want to ship them to a hex that has a more convenient frontline refinery) as emats/hemats are better moved in resource containers and fuel in liquid containers. This scheme is better for people with daltonism, myopia and other vision problems.

## Labor costs

Using very crude assumptions:

```
3 minutes   bringing one resource container to a refinery or a facility (< 1 hex)
5 minutes   bringing one shippable to a frontline depot (with a train or a freighter)
7 minutes   frontline delivery round-trip
20 minutes  clearing a field with stationary harvesters while transporting salvage to a refinery
40 minutes  clearing a component/sulfur field with a mobile harvester (30k)
45 minutes  clearing a salvage field with a mobile harvester (50k salvage + 50 rare metals)

3 seconds   shirt
4 seconds   sticky
6 seconds   crate of bmats in the backline
11 seconds  crate of bmats in a frontline storage depot
23 seconds  cutler
27 seconds  medic's loadout
31 seconds  crate of bmats in a frontline base
35 seconds  clancy-raca
2 minutes   rampart at a frontline storage depot
3 minutes   pallet of 120mm at a frontline ammo fac
5 minutes   silverhand in the backline
6 minutes   silverhand in a frontline storage depot
15 minutes  pallet of 150mm at a frontline ammo fac
1 hour      battle tank
1.5 hours   pallet of 300mm (20 minutes of SC fire)
2 hours     maintenance tunnel with 32k msupps
2.5 hours   SPG
3 hours     contents of a relic base (300 crates)
4 hours     trainload of basic logi at a frontline depot
5 hours     SHT
18 hours    SC
20 hours    frigate
40 hours    empty bluefin
45 hours    RSC
50 hours    storage depot lootbox (10k crates)
60 hours    bluefin with 5k crates and 100 tanks
70 hours    battleship
150 hours   nuke
200 hours   nuke + launch pad
```

## Mods

- [Improved Map Mod](https://rustard.itch.io/improved-map-mod)
- [Clean Icons Essential](https://ashdeuzofr.itch.io/foxhole-clean-icons-essential)
- [High Visability Assembly Materials](https://fudgelfox.itch.io/foxhole-high-visability-assembly-materials)
- [Better Container Colours](https://danetello.itch.io/foxhole-better-container-colours)

## Tools

- You want to set up macros for auto-clicking (for pulling resources/crates), holding left key (for harvesters), maybe holding right key (for aiming), holding W (for all vehicles) and S (for small trains).
- [Stockpile Scanner](https://s6ss.pages.dev/). OCR/accounting tool for planning frontline and midline deliveries.
- [Foxhole Stats](https://foxholestats.com/). Shows casualty counts, time since a base was captured and lets you measure distances.
- [Foxhole Planner](https://foxholeplanner.com/). Plan the layout of your facility before building.
- [Facility Cost Calculator](https://foxholestuff.com/). Specify what you want to produce and which processes you want to use, and it breaks down the raw/intermediate resources needed. Outdated but still very useful.
- [LogiWaze](https://www.logiwaze.com/). Calculates driving times from point A to point B.
